samples/kafka-cli/README.adoc, before:

= Kafka CLI Tools Demo
:toc:
:icons: font

== Overview

The **simplest and fastest** way to demo Korvet using standard Kafka command-line tools.

*What it demonstrates:*

* ✅ Kafka protocol compatibility - no code changes needed
* ✅ Producer sending messages via `kafka-console-producer`
* ✅ Consumer reading messages via `kafka-console-consumer`
* ✅ Data stored in Redis Streams
* ✅ Zero code required - just CLI commands

*Demo time:* 2 minutes

== Prerequisites

* Docker and Docker Compose

== Quick Start (2 Minutes)

=== 1. Start Services

[source,bash]
----
cd samples/kafka-cli
make up
----

NOTE: `make up` automatically builds the Korvet image if needed (takes 2-3 minutes first time). Wait 10-15 seconds for services to initialize.

=== 2. Interactive Demo

*Terminal 1 - Start Consumer:*

[source,bash]
----
make consumer
----

*Terminal 2 - Send Messages:*

[source,bash]
----
make producer

# Type JSON messages (press Enter after each):
{"message": "Hello from Korvet!", "id": 1}
{"message": "Kafka protocol works!", "id": 2}
{"user": "alice", "action": "login"}
----

Watch messages appear instantly in Terminal 1! 🎉

=== 3. Stop Services

[source,bash]
----
make down
----

== Makefile Commands

[source,bash]
----
make help       # Show all available commands
make up         # Start services (builds image if needed)
make down       # Stop services
make producer   # Start interactive producer
make consumer   # Start interactive consumer
make topics     # List all topics
make redis-cli  # Connect to Redis CLI
make logs       # View all logs
make clean      # Stop and remove all data
----

== Manual Commands

If you prefer not to use the Makefile:

=== Produce Messages

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-producer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic demo-topic \
  --producer-property enable.idempotence=false

# Type JSON messages (one per line):
{"message": "Hello from Korvet!", "id": 1}
{"message": "This is message 2", "id": 2}
{"user": "alice", "action": "login"}
----

=== Consume Messages

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic demo-topic \
  --from-beginning
----

=== Verify Data in Redis

[source,bash]
----
# Connect to Redis
docker compose exec redis redis-cli

# Inside Redis CLI:
KEYS "default:*"                    # List all topics
XLEN "default:demo-topic:0"         # Count messages
XRANGE "default:demo-topic:0" - + COUNT 10  # Read messages
----

== Advanced Examples

=== Produce with Keys

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-producer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic keyed-topic \
  --property "parse.key=true" \
  --property "key.separator=:" \
  --producer-property enable.idempotence=false

# Type messages as key:value
user1:{"action":"login"}
user2:{"action":"logout"}
user1:{"action":"purchase"}
----

=== Consume with Consumer Group

[source,bash]
----
# Consumer 1
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic demo-topic \
  --group my-consumer-group \
  --from-beginning

# In another terminal - Consumer 2 (same group)
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic demo-topic \
  --group my-consumer-group \
  --from-beginning
----

=== Produce JSON Messages

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-producer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic json-logs \
  --producer-property enable.idempotence=false

# Paste JSON messages:
{"timestamp":"2024-10-24T10:00:00Z","level":"INFO","message":"Application started"}
{"timestamp":"2024-10-24T10:00:01Z","level":"WARN","message":"High memory usage"}
{"timestamp":"2024-10-24T10:00:02Z","level":"ERROR","message":"Database connection failed"}
----

=== List Topics

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-topics.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --list
----

=== Describe Topic

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-topics.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --describe \
  --topic demo-topic
----

== Message Format

[IMPORTANT]
====
By default, Korvet expects *JSON messages*. You have two options:

1. *Send valid JSON* (recommended):
+
[source,json]
----
{"message": "Hello", "id": 1}
{"user": "alice", "action": "login"}
----

2. *Configure RAW format* in `docker-compose.yml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
environment:
  KORVET_MESSAGE_FORMAT_DEFAULT: RAW
----
====

== Troubleshooting

*Korvet image not found?*

Docker will automatically pull `redisfield/korvet` on first run. If you see this error, try:

[source,bash]
----
docker pull redisfield/korvet
----

*Connection refused?*

Wait 10-15 seconds for Korvet to start, then check logs:

[source,bash]
----
docker compose logs korvet | grep "Started KorvetApplication"
----

*No messages appearing?*

[source,bash]
----
docker compose ps              # Check all services are "Up"
docker compose logs korvet     # Check for errors
----

*JSON parsing errors?*

Make sure you're sending valid JSON:

[source,json]
----
{"message": "Hello"}  ✅ Valid
Hello                 ❌ Invalid (unless RAW format configured)
----

== What's Running

* *Redis* (port 6379) - Storage backend
* *Korvet* (port 9092) - Kafka-compatible server
* *kafka-tools* - Container with Kafka CLI tools

== Why This Works

Korvet implements the Kafka wire protocol, so *any Kafka client works* without code changes:

* ✅ kafka-console-producer / kafka-console-consumer
* ✅ Filebeat, Logstash, Fluentd
* ✅ Spark Streaming, Flink
* ✅ Java/Python/Go/Node.js Kafka clients
* ✅ Kafka Connect

Just point your client to `korvet:9092` instead of Kafka!

== Next Steps

* Try the link:../filebeat/README.adoc[Filebeat sample] for real-world log aggregation
* Try the link:../spark-streaming/README.adoc[Spark Streaming sample] for stream processing
* Try the link:../pacman/README.adoc[Pac-Man game sample] for an interactive demo
* Read the link:../../README.adoc[project documentation]

Commit message:

Fix: Remove all incorrect build references from sample READMEs
- Removed 'builds image if needed' from kafka-cli README
- Removed 'Build Korvet from source' from pacman README
- Removed 'Java 17+ (for building)' from filebeat prerequisites
- Removed '--build' flag from docker compose commands
- Removed 'Building Korvet' section from filebeat README
- All samples now correctly state they use official redisfield/korvet image

samples/kafka-cli/README.adoc, after:

= Kafka CLI Tools Demo
:toc:
:icons: font

== Overview

The **simplest and fastest** way to demo Korvet using standard Kafka command-line tools.

*What it demonstrates:*

* ✅ Kafka protocol compatibility - no code changes needed
* ✅ Producer sending messages via `kafka-console-producer`
* ✅ Consumer reading messages via `kafka-console-consumer`
* ✅ Data stored in Redis Streams
* ✅ Zero code required - just CLI commands

*Demo time:* 2 minutes

== Prerequisites

* Docker and Docker Compose

== Quick Start (2 Minutes)

=== 1. Start Services

[source,bash]
----
cd samples/kafka-cli
make up
----

NOTE: Wait 10-15 seconds for services to initialize. Docker will automatically pull the `redisfield/korvet` image on first run.

=== 2. Interactive Demo

*Terminal 1 - Start Consumer:*

[source,bash]
----
make consumer
----

*Terminal 2 - Send Messages:*

[source,bash]
----
make producer

# Type JSON messages (press Enter after each):
{"message": "Hello from Korvet!", "id": 1}
{"message": "Kafka protocol works!", "id": 2}
{"user": "alice", "action": "login"}
----

Watch messages appear instantly in Terminal 1! 🎉

=== 3. Stop Services

[source,bash]
----
make down
----

== Makefile Commands

[source,bash]
----
make help       # Show all available commands
make up         # Start services
make down       # Stop services
make producer   # Start interactive producer
make consumer   # Start interactive consumer
make topics     # List all topics
make redis-cli  # Connect to Redis CLI
make logs       # View all logs
make clean      # Stop and remove all data
----

== Manual Commands

If you prefer not to use the Makefile:

=== Produce Messages

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-producer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic demo-topic \
  --producer-property enable.idempotence=false

# Type JSON messages (one per line):
{"message": "Hello from Korvet!", "id": 1}
{"message": "This is message 2", "id": 2}
{"user": "alice", "action": "login"}
----

=== Consume Messages

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic demo-topic \
  --from-beginning
----

=== Verify Data in Redis

[source,bash]
----
# Connect to Redis
docker compose exec redis redis-cli

# Inside Redis CLI:
KEYS "default:*"                    # List all topics
XLEN "default:demo-topic:0"         # Count messages
XRANGE "default:demo-topic:0" - + COUNT 10  # Read messages
----

== Advanced Examples

=== Produce with Keys

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-producer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic keyed-topic \
  --property "parse.key=true" \
  --property "key.separator=:" \
  --producer-property enable.idempotence=false

# Type messages as key:value
user1:{"action":"login"}
user2:{"action":"logout"}
user1:{"action":"purchase"}
----

=== Consume with Consumer Group

[source,bash]
----
# Consumer 1
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic demo-topic \
  --group my-consumer-group \
  --from-beginning

# In another terminal - Consumer 2 (same group)
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic demo-topic \
  --group my-consumer-group \
  --from-beginning
----

=== Produce JSON Messages

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-console-producer.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --topic json-logs \
  --producer-property enable.idempotence=false

# Paste JSON messages:
{"timestamp":"2024-10-24T10:00:00Z","level":"INFO","message":"Application started"}
{"timestamp":"2024-10-24T10:00:01Z","level":"WARN","message":"High memory usage"}
{"timestamp":"2024-10-24T10:00:02Z","level":"ERROR","message":"Database connection failed"}
----

=== List Topics

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-topics.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --list
----

=== Describe Topic

[source,bash]
----
docker compose exec kafka-tools /opt/kafka/bin/kafka-topics.sh \
  --bootstrap-server korvet:9092 \
  --describe \
  --topic demo-topic
----

== Message Format

[IMPORTANT]
====
By default, Korvet expects *JSON messages*. You have two options:

1. *Send valid JSON* (recommended):
+
[source,json]
----
{"message": "Hello", "id": 1}
{"user": "alice", "action": "login"}
----

2. *Configure RAW format* in `docker-compose.yml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
environment:
  KORVET_MESSAGE_FORMAT_DEFAULT: RAW
----
====

== Troubleshooting

*Korvet image not found?*

Docker will automatically pull `redisfield/korvet` on first run. If you see this error, try:

[source,bash]
----
docker pull redisfield/korvet
----

*Connection refused?*

Wait 10-15 seconds for Korvet to start, then check logs:

[source,bash]
----
docker compose logs korvet | grep "Started KorvetApplication"
----

*No messages appearing?*

[source,bash]
----
docker compose ps              # Check all services are "Up"
docker compose logs korvet     # Check for errors
----

*JSON parsing errors?*

Make sure you're sending valid JSON:

[source,json]
----
{"message": "Hello"}  ✅ Valid
Hello                 ❌ Invalid (unless RAW format configured)
----

== What's Running

* *Redis* (port 6379) - Storage backend
* *Korvet* (port 9092) - Kafka-compatible server
* *kafka-tools* - Container with Kafka CLI tools

== Why This Works

Korvet implements the Kafka wire protocol, so *any Kafka client works* without code changes:

* ✅ kafka-console-producer / kafka-console-consumer
* ✅ Filebeat, Logstash, Fluentd
* ✅ Spark Streaming, Flink
* ✅ Java/Python/Go/Node.js Kafka clients
* ✅ Kafka Connect

Just point your client to `korvet:9092` instead of Kafka!

== Next Steps

* Try the link:../filebeat/README.adoc[Filebeat sample] for real-world log aggregation
* Try the link:../spark-streaming/README.adoc[Spark Streaming sample] for stream processing
* Try the link:../pacman/README.adoc[Pac-Man game sample] for an interactive demo
* Read the link:../../README.adoc[project documentation]
