samples/README.adoc, before:

= Korvet Samples
:toc:
:icons: font

== Overview

This directory contains sample configurations and Docker Compose setups demonstrating how to use Korvet with various data sources and clients.

== Available Samples

=== link:kafka-cli/README.adoc[Kafka CLI Tools Demo] ⭐ **START HERE**

The **simplest and fastest** way to demo Korvet using standard Kafka command-line tools.

**Includes:**

* Redis backend storage
* Korvet server with Kafka protocol
* Kafka console producer/consumer
* Makefile with convenient commands

**Use Cases:**

* Quick demos and POCs
* Testing Kafka protocol compatibility
* Learning Korvet basics
* Developer onboarding

**Demo time:** 2 minutes

**Quick Start:**

[source,bash]
----
cd kafka-cli
make up
make producer  # In terminal 1
make consumer  # In terminal 2
----

=== link:spark-streaming/README.adoc[Spark Streaming Demo]

Demonstrates Apache Spark Structured Streaming reading from Korvet using the Kafka API.

**Includes:**

* Redis backend storage
* Korvet server with Kafka protocol
* Apache Spark cluster (master + worker)
* PySpark streaming application
* Automated data generator
* Multiple streaming queries (raw events, aggregations, Parquet writes)

**Use Cases:**

* Real-time stream processing
* Windowed aggregations
* Data lake integration
* Complex event processing
* Machine learning on streaming data

**Demo time:** 5 minutes

**Quick Start:**

[source,bash]
----
cd spark-streaming
make up
make demo
----

=== link:filebeat/README.adoc[Filebeat Sample]

Demonstrates log shipping from Filebeat to Korvet using the Kafka protocol.

**Includes:**

* Redis backend storage
* Korvet server with Kafka protocol
* Filebeat configured to ship JSON logs
* Logstash consumer for processing
* Automated log generator for testing

**Use Cases:**

* Application log aggregation
* System log collection
* Container log shipping
* Real-time log streaming

**Quick Start:**

[source,bash]
----
cd filebeat
docker compose up -d
----

== Prerequisites

All samples require:

* Docker 20.10+
* Docker Compose 2.0+
* At least 2GB available memory

All samples use the official `redisfield/korvet` Docker image from Docker Hub - no build step required!

== Run the Sample

[source,bash]
----
cd samples/filebeat
docker-compose up -d
----

=== Alternative: Run Korvet Locally (Without Docker)

If you prefer to run Korvet outside Docker for development:

. Start Redis:
+
[source,bash]
----
docker run -d -p 6379:6379 redis
----

. Run Korvet from source:
+
[source,bash]
----
./gradlew bootRun
----

. Modify the sample's `docker-compose.yml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
# Comment out the korvet service
# korvet:
#   image: redisfield/korvet
#   ...

# Update Filebeat to connect to host machine
filebeat:
  ...
  extra_hosts:
    - "korvet:host.docker.internal"
----

== Sample Structure

Each sample directory contains:

* `README.adoc` - Detailed documentation
* `docker-compose.yml` - Docker Compose configuration
* `Makefile` - Convenient commands for common tasks
* Configuration files (e.g., `filebeat.yml`, `logstash.conf`)

== Common Tasks

=== View Logs

[source,bash]
----
# All services
docker-compose logs -f

# Specific service
docker-compose logs -f korvet
docker-compose logs -f filebeat
----

=== Check Redis Data

[source,bash]
----
# Connect to Redis
docker-compose exec redis redis-cli

# List all topics (keys)
KEYS "default:*"

# Check message count
XLEN "default:filebeat-logs:0"

# Read messages
XRANGE "default:filebeat-logs:0" - + COUNT 10
----

=== Restart Services

[source,bash]
----
# Restart all
docker-compose restart

# Restart specific service
docker-compose restart korvet
----

=== Clean Up

[source,bash]
----
# Stop and remove containers, networks
docker-compose down

# Also remove volumes (deletes all data)
docker-compose down -v
----

== Troubleshooting

=== Korvet Image Not Found

If you see `image korvet not found`, you need to build Korvet first. See "Building Korvet Locally" above.

=== Port Already in Use

If ports 6379 or 9092 are already in use, modify the `docker-compose.yml` port mappings:

[source,yaml]
----
ports:
  - "16379:6379"  # Use port 16379 instead of 6379
  - "19092:9092"  # Use port 19092 instead of 9092
----

=== Services Not Starting

Check service health:

[source,bash]
----
docker-compose ps
docker-compose logs
----

=== Connection Issues

Verify network connectivity:

[source,bash]
----
# Check if Korvet is listening
docker-compose exec korvet netstat -tlnp | grep 9092

# Test Redis connection
docker-compose exec redis redis-cli PING
----

== Next Steps

* Explore the link:filebeat/README.adoc[Filebeat sample]
* Explore the link:spark-streaming/README.adoc[Spark Streaming sample]
* Explore the link:pacman/README.adoc[Pac-Man game sample]
* Try modifying configurations to experiment with different settings

== Contributing

To add a new sample:

. Create a new directory under `samples/`
. Include a `README.adoc` with detailed documentation
. Provide a `docker-compose.yml` for easy setup
. Add configuration files with comments
. Update this README to list the new sample

== See Also

* link:../README.adoc[Korvet Project README]

Commit message:

Fix: Update Korvet Image Not Found troubleshooting section
- Removed incorrect reference to 'Building Korvet Locally'
- Added correct docker pull command for official image

samples/README.adoc, after:

= Korvet Samples
:toc:
:icons: font

== Overview

This directory contains sample configurations and Docker Compose setups demonstrating how to use Korvet with various data sources and clients.

== Available Samples

=== link:kafka-cli/README.adoc[Kafka CLI Tools Demo] ⭐ **START HERE**

The **simplest and fastest** way to demo Korvet using standard Kafka command-line tools.

**Includes:**

* Redis backend storage
* Korvet server with Kafka protocol
* Kafka console producer/consumer
* Makefile with convenient commands

**Use Cases:**

* Quick demos and POCs
* Testing Kafka protocol compatibility
* Learning Korvet basics
* Developer onboarding

**Demo time:** 2 minutes

**Quick Start:**

[source,bash]
----
cd kafka-cli
make up
make producer  # In terminal 1
make consumer  # In terminal 2
----

=== link:spark-streaming/README.adoc[Spark Streaming Demo]

Demonstrates Apache Spark Structured Streaming reading from Korvet using the Kafka API.

**Includes:**

* Redis backend storage
* Korvet server with Kafka protocol
* Apache Spark cluster (master + worker)
* PySpark streaming application
* Automated data generator
* Multiple streaming queries (raw events, aggregations, Parquet writes)

**Use Cases:**

* Real-time stream processing
* Windowed aggregations
* Data lake integration
* Complex event processing
* Machine learning on streaming data

**Demo time:** 5 minutes

**Quick Start:**

[source,bash]
----
cd spark-streaming
make up
make demo
----

=== link:filebeat/README.adoc[Filebeat Sample]

Demonstrates log shipping from Filebeat to Korvet using the Kafka protocol.

**Includes:**

* Redis backend storage
* Korvet server with Kafka protocol
* Filebeat configured to ship JSON logs
* Logstash consumer for processing
* Automated log generator for testing

**Use Cases:**

* Application log aggregation
* System log collection
* Container log shipping
* Real-time log streaming

**Quick Start:**

[source,bash]
----
cd filebeat
docker compose up -d
----

== Prerequisites

All samples require:

* Docker 20.10+
* Docker Compose 2.0+
* At least 2GB available memory

All samples use the official `redisfield/korvet` Docker image from Docker Hub - no build step required!

== Run the Sample

[source,bash]
----
cd samples/filebeat
docker-compose up -d
----

=== Alternative: Run Korvet Locally (Without Docker)

If you prefer to run Korvet outside Docker for development:

. Start Redis:
+
[source,bash]
----
docker run -d -p 6379:6379 redis
----

. Run Korvet from source:
+
[source,bash]
----
./gradlew bootRun
----

. Modify the sample's `docker-compose.yml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
# Comment out the korvet service
# korvet:
#   image: redisfield/korvet
#   ...

# Update Filebeat to connect to host machine
filebeat:
  ...
  extra_hosts:
    - "korvet:host.docker.internal"
----

== Sample Structure

Each sample directory contains:

* `README.adoc` - Detailed documentation
* `docker-compose.yml` - Docker Compose configuration
* `Makefile` - Convenient commands for common tasks
* Configuration files (e.g., `filebeat.yml`, `logstash.conf`)

== Common Tasks

=== View Logs

[source,bash]
----
# All services
docker-compose logs -f

# Specific service
docker-compose logs -f korvet
docker-compose logs -f filebeat
----

=== Check Redis Data

[source,bash]
----
# Connect to Redis
docker-compose exec redis redis-cli

# List all topics (keys)
KEYS "default:*"

# Check message count
XLEN "default:filebeat-logs:0"

# Read messages
XRANGE "default:filebeat-logs:0" - + COUNT 10
----

=== Restart Services

[source,bash]
----
# Restart all
docker-compose restart

# Restart specific service
docker-compose restart korvet
----

=== Clean Up

[source,bash]
----
# Stop and remove containers, networks
docker-compose down

# Also remove volumes (deletes all data)
docker-compose down -v
----

== Troubleshooting

=== Korvet Image Not Found

Docker will automatically pull `redisfield/korvet` on first run. If you see this error, try:

[source,bash]
----
docker pull redisfield/korvet
----

=== Port Already in Use

If ports 6379 or 9092 are already in use, modify the `docker-compose.yml` port mappings:

[source,yaml]
----
ports:
  - "16379:6379"  # Use port 16379 instead of 6379
  - "19092:9092"  # Use port 19092 instead of 9092
----

=== Services Not Starting

Check service health:

[source,bash]
----
docker-compose ps
docker-compose logs
----

=== Connection Issues

Verify network connectivity:

[source,bash]
----
# Check if Korvet is listening
docker-compose exec korvet netstat -tlnp | grep 9092

# Test Redis connection
docker-compose exec redis redis-cli PING
----

== Next Steps

* Explore the link:filebeat/README.adoc[Filebeat sample]
* Explore the link:spark-streaming/README.adoc[Spark Streaming sample]
* Explore the link:pacman/README.adoc[Pac-Man game sample]
* Try modifying configurations to experiment with different settings

== Contributing

To add a new sample:

. Create a new directory under `samples/`
. Include a `README.adoc` with detailed documentation
. Provide a `docker-compose.yml` for easy setup
. Add configuration files with comments
. Update this README to list the new sample

== See Also

* link:../README.adoc[Korvet Project README]
